Today, we will discuss
importance sampling.
As we will see in later videos,
importance sampling allows us
to do off-policy learning,
learning with one policy
while following another.
In this video, we will first
describe how importance
sampling works.
By the end of this video,
you will be able to use
importance sampling to
estimate the expected value
of a target distribution
using samples from
a different distribution.
Let's start by clearly stating
the problem that
importance sampling solves.
We have some random variable
x that's being
sampled from a probability
distribution b.
We want to estimate
the expected value of x but
with respect to the target
distribution Pi.
Because x is drawn from b,
we cannot simply use
the sample average to compute
the expectation under Pi.
This sample average will give us
the expected value
under b instead.
Let's start with the definition
of the expected value.
We sum over all possible outcomes
x multiplied by its
probability according to Pi.
Next, we can multiply by b of x
divided by b of x because
this term is equal to 1.
B of x is the probability of
observed outcome x under b.
Shifting around the numerator,
we end up with a ratio
between Pi and b.
This ratio is very
important to us and
is called the importance
sampling ratio.
We usually write
the importance sampling ratio
as Rho of x.
Now, let's go a step further.
If we treat x times
the importance sampling ratio
as a new random variable,
times the probability
of observing x,
we can then rewrite this sum
as an expectation under b.
Notice that
our expectation is now
under b instead of
being under Pi.
We know how to use
importance sampling
to correct the expectation,
but how do we use it to estimate
the expectation from data?
It's actually very simple.
We just need to compute
a weighted sample average with
the importance sampling ratio
as the weightings,
as shown on the slide.
Note that these samples
x_i are drawn from b,
not Pi. That's it.
We can now estimate
the expected value of x under
distribution Pi by using
the sample average,
the samples drawn
from distribution b.
Let's take a look at
a small example of
using importance sampling
to estimate an expectation.
We have two rather different
distributions: b and Pi.
We'll draw samples
according to b and try
to estimate the expected
value under Pi.
On the right, we'll keep track of
our current estimate for
the expected value under Pi.
For reference, we show
the true expected value in
the middle of the line.
Let's draw a sample from b.
We get x equals 1,
which happens with
probability of 0.85.
The probability of
getting x equals 1
from Pi would have been 0.3.
To compute the sample
average for Pi,
we need our importance
sampling formula.
Plugging in the observed values,
we get an estimate of 0.35.
Let's do it again. We
draw a sample from b,
this time x equals 3,
which happens with
probability 0.05.
The probability we
would have seen at 3
if we sampled from Pi is 0.1.
We'll add x to the buffer,
then plug in the observed values
into our formula.
We take the previous
estimate plus
the new estimate and divide
it by 2 to get 3.18.
One last sample.
We draw another one from b
and add it to the buffer,
we plug in the observed values to
the importance sampling
ratio formula and get 2.2.
With samples just from b,
we managed to get
a pretty good estimate
of the expectation under Pi.
That's it for this video.
Today, you learned how to use
importance sampling to
estimate expected values
according to one
distribution when data is
sampled from another.
See you next time.